So concepts that we need to understand,
and probably you know, but
let's declare these concepts
again to understand
then the consequences of
what we're going to do.
We have origin as one of
the most important concepts.
We have a web client.
Then you say, okay,
what's a web client, is it a browser?
Well, a browser is a web client, but
there are other web clients available.
I will talk about that in a second.
A device, that's simple.
And a user, that's also simple to
understand, okay, we are users.
So we are going to get deeper
with origin and web client,
I think that device is straightforward,
the same as user, okay?
But have in mind that when
I'm talking about the user,
I'm talking about the person
that is using the computer.
And you say, yeah,
I know what you're saying Max.
But have in mind that there are a couple
of operating systems where on the same
device, you can login
with different users.
So it can be a multi-user experience,
so just remember that, okay?
Sometimes you can share your
laptop with your partner at home.
And maybe each of the persons have
a different user, or maybe not.
Or maybe they are sharing the OS user,
okay, so it can be even a guest user.
So getting deeper with the origin, okay?
Quick and dirty definition,
it's the domain, so our domain.
But technically it's more than that, okay?
If you wanna remember just one thing
from the origin, it's just the domain.
So frontendmasters.com,
that's the origin, okay?
But actually, it's more than that,
it's protocol + host + port.
So different protocols, for example,
HTTP and HTTPS on the same host,
the host can be the domain or
it can be an IP address.
So if you have the same IP address,
the same domain but different protocols,
you have different origins, okay?
So, for example, firt.dev on HTTP,
firt.dev on HTTPS,
www.firt.dev, our firt.dev column 4000,
that's the port,
all of these origins are different,
okay, completely different origins.
So it's the same domain but
on different contexts, okay?
We need to be careful with,
first, the www prefix, okay?
We don't use it too much today,
but it's still there, okay?
But have in mind that when you have a www
prefix, you have a different origin.
And to make things more complicated
from a user's perspective, sometimes
today modern browsers, such as Safari,
they are hiding that prefix by default.
So when you're browsing a website you
don't see it, okay, until you click
in the URL bar and then you can actually
see the details and see the full domain.
So have in mind that, okay?
So another issue is country TLDs,
Top Level Domains.
For example, Amazon, they have amazon.com,
they have amazon.es from Espana,
that's Spain, or amazon.co.uk.
So is it the same origin?
No, it's actually a different domain,
okay?
So if you have a PWA or a website
where you have different country TLDs,
you need to understand what
will happen with your storage
because it's not going to be so
simple, okay?
Mostly if you wanna share
the storage between those domains.
So another thing is subdomains, okay?
So if you have a third lever,
a fourth lever domain, so different hosts,
technically they are different origins.
Okay, so just have in mind that.
So I'm talking about this
because as a spoiler and
probably you already know this,
so our storage is origin-based.
So when we're storing data,
who can actually access that data,
any other codes running
on that same origin.
So not on subdomains,
not on other country top level domains.
Yeah?
>> It's kind of an opinion question.
>> Go ahead.
>> But regarding protocol,
I'm thinking back to that discussion
of one request, pull the zip, etc.
In your kind of background in recent
years, have you encountered many
use cases for, maybe not IPFS, but
FTP protocol or other protocols,
or is it pretty standard these
days that HTTP, to use HTTPS?
>> Well,
when we are talking about web clients,
at least, when we are talking about web
clients these days, it's HTTP and HTTPS.
And I will say that today it's HTTPS.
So we are targeting 70% of the web today
is HTTPS, of the domains at least.
And we are going there
because of many reasons,
not just because of security but
because of evolving the web.
So today, to evolve the web protocols,
to evolve HTTP, for example, to HTTP/2 and
now HTTP/3,
the only way to do that safely worldwide
was actually to wrap those
TCP packages in HTTPS.
So in SSL, using SSL.
Without that, there are a lot of routers
out there in the backbone infrastructure
of Internet that were actually dropping
the packets because they were saying,
what is this, HTTP/3?
No, that doesn't exist.
So they were dropping the packet.
Because of that, that's why in
the past five years, six years,
we were pushing the whole web to HTTPS,
okay?
But FTP, do you have other protocols,
like old gopher,
if you have ever heard about that, so
they're not actually there for the web.
Even modern ideas, for example,
right now there is an API kind of
a solution available only on Chrome that
lets you package a web app in a package,
okay, and then it can distribute
that package offline.
For example, I can give you
a USB key with a website, or
you can download that
through a Bluetooth beacon.
So you can get into a room
without connection,
like you're in a black box
without any Internet connection,
and using Bluetooth you could download
a website and run the website.
So it's a different protocol internally,
but it's on top of HTTPS.
So the browser when you open that,
it will look like HTTPS.
So even with new modern ideas, okay,
that's web packaging, by the way.
So even with new modern ideas,
we're still making or
keeping the HTTPS as the main protocol for
everything.
So the only real situation where
you may have two different
origins changing the protocol
is HTTP versus HTTPS.
But if you're creating your website
these days, you won't have that problem,
it will be HTTPS only and that's all.
In case you have a legacy app and
you have maybe half
of your server still running on HTTP and
for some reason, you can't upgrade.
Well, you may have a problem there.
But I think in the future,
I don't see that as a problem.
So changing the protocol is not
really something that will happen.